one of the things that people should
realize is that all 18 games in regular
season are treated exactly the same it's
not as though game 18 s more important
game 2 at the end of day if you finish
12 and 6 you're finishing 12 and 6 no
matter where those wins and losses came
from well I'm here on the second week of
LCS with covers presented by Omni slash
talked to Sebastian Park the head of
clutch gaming about how things are going
and specifically a little bit about the
ruling that we saw last week against
echo fox so first off Sebastian maybe
you can take me through your experience
over the course of Sunday and because
you you I guess we're off site for that
right yeah yes I I had stepped off site
for a friend's wedding and so I was
watching at the wedding and realizing
hey we're losing the game and then we
were coming back the kills were even the
towers were a little bit the turrets
were a little bit off balance but like
that's just standing goal that's free
goal to get once you win a teamfight and
say okay this seems like a Nokia
position and then suddenly I thought my
phone froze but it was actually the game
and the game froze and now it's our
super unfortunately we figured it'd just
be a chronal break every time we played
that gofox we've had problems the server
right like servers crash things don't
work out for us we're like oh cool we're
Nick I was like Nick Nick said that he
was about to just kill honey I was like
no that seems reasonable your she has a
vision of you and your vision of him so
that seems doable and so we're really
excited to get the remake done just keep
everyone in the mindset planning out
what to do next we we had some issues
with that at during the third place
match we're like we played a fight the
same way we would always play if I and
echo fox society some completely
differently and we end up getting
punished for a fight I don't remember
Game three it was when like we had like
we had to go to four to trade in the
jungle top and then the game was trying
to break back to before then and then
they did different things so really okay
let's plan for what to do after a break
but then they told us basically that we
don't get a new
and we were very sad whew I mean you
make it sound like the the disadvantage
for clutch was not that bad
but I feel like the general perception
is that there was it was a pretty big
disadvantage you guys faced in fact even
in the riot explanation they said that
the no team in the history of league or
whatever else yes has ever come back
from that strong of a disadvantage yeah
I mean I think the problem there is I
was yeah it's actually no team in the
history of the league on this patch came
back from that disadvantage and it was a
very specific disadvantage I was like
ten thousand eighty nine then they're
saying all these teams are playing
snowballing manner I mean like our
complaint to riot and what we've been
very vocal about is just making sure
that we have an even application of the
rule say if you're giving us a game loss
for this and giving echo box of game win
make sure you're consistent about that
Doral but like if like I said well
people screaming fly question on cars
driving by oh there we go
but yeah I mean look the the rule set
was was super strange here right like
yes if you're playing Vladimir or if
you're playing a bunch of champions like
brand in the bar line it's hard to come
back on those chat gets if you're behind
but we were running multiple marksmen we
are changed we had an ability to company
at syndra we had the ability to come
back which doesn't say we were favorite
like I don't think that's what anyone's
claiming and is it within within riots
rules to be able to issue adjudications
yeah it is but you know we're on the
competition Committee which is the
committee that supports the rule side of
riot games and so we were we have pretty
good understanding the rules I just want
to make sure the referees and the staff
knew what the rule was and our
interpretation of the rule which is
still our interpretation but one
contested by right is that historically
the president is like unless you're
about to lose you remake the game and we
thought the language was pretty clear on
avoid defeat versus come back and win
right and so given that language we're
like okay it makes sense for us to get
remake here it sort of sucks for echo
fox but you know insofar as that's the
rule set we wouldn't go by it they
disagree and that's fine like if they
disagree we don't particularly find that
troublesome or meddlesome it's just a
matter of make
sure hey like would you guys have done
this if this was like week nine at the
LCS or would you have done this if this
was like world spinals I think the
answer's no and that you know sort of
annoys us okay so your your perspective
is like if just to reiterate and clarify
your you feel like there was a chance
for clutch to come back and that the
disadvantage was maybe not as bad as it
seemed because even from a historical
context because the meta is so different
that it might allow for comebacks at a
greater degree than normally yeah I mean
so the big takeaway here isn't my belief
in what the combat mechanics would be
it's more just a function of hey how do
you know citing a hundred thirty-one
games isn't large enough of a sample
size to give me assurance is that you're
gonna be able to come back we saw
massive compacts in the last two weeks
right like we saw the like huge gold
differential which was a larger
percentage differential come back
between fatality and tally playing in
Europe yeah I forgot who they were
playing exactly but I watched that game
in totality I didn't maybe rock cat or
something like that but the Talia that
came back from way far further down
percentage-wise yesterday we saw golden
Guardians come back with their with
their funnel strat final strats have a
worse chance of coming back than most
most strategies and and so we were just
like look like we just disagreed with
the misattribution of statistics and
them claiming we couldn't come back
right cuz it's one thing to say hey this
is a judgement call
we thought you guys were further behind
and that's what it gave you a game loss
and if that's the way we're gonna
approach it from that's fine just do it
for every game weeks one through week
nine but insofar as they're like oh yeah
no we're sure from these stats that you
guys want to come back didn't sit well
with us
and you're your so besides the
statistical decision making there you're
also concerned that going forward this
precedent because it is somewhat of a
precedent breaking situation first time
it's ever happened yeah and you're
concerned that this might not be applied
the same way in the future for instance
if you had a TSM verse cloud9 game in
the finals
you might remake that whereas you
wouldn't
or you might not you might remain that
even though you didn't do it here you're
saying right right and so that's that's
that's my consternation I give and you
know with ride gives me full assurances
and you know they've been pretty open
about talking to us about through the
process and and quite frankly like Chris
Greeley the Commissioner and the referee
staff has been pretty open and
communicative Doral but that's just our
concern right it doesn't it's a judgment
call so if it's a judgment call that
means it's really hard to make and is it
easier to make that judgment call week
one game two or like day two of the
tournament versus week nine like
eighteenth game I think it is and and
that and that's concerning because one
of the things that people should realize
is that all 18 games in regular season
are treated exactly the same it's not as
though game 18 more important game to at
the end of day if you finish twelve and
six you're finishing twelve and six no
matter where those wins and losses came
from and so that's just our concern you
mentioned the referee thing I one of the
interesting conversations I had
yesterday was with febiven who said that
basically that he felt like the
communication could have been better in
the moment where basically they waited
around stage and eventually the refs
came up and said to Klutch like you guys
need to get off stage and collect your
stuff and then echo fox was like so who
won they're like you guys want him that
was it late they felt like they didn't
get very much of an explanation in the
moment I don't know how much to where
you were aware of that or or if you
heard too much about that given that you
were off-site but I don't know if you
had any thoughts about how all that went
down at the moment yeah I mean I don't
think necessarily that everyone was well
prepared to be able to comment fully on
de and to take care of that situation I
can we put our players in a really bad
spot I think that's that's not okay and
though that should be rectified next
time all right
and like judgment calls by referees that
are wrong or misaligned or
probabilistically incorrect you know
happen all the time it happens in soccer
happens in football app it's basketball
baseball right I do think that like it's
sort of stuck for our players and it's
still stings a lot we don't want to talk
about so and so you know we we
appreciate the work they do and we hope
that they they you know fix that process
for next time at the same time is the
first time it's happened so maybe
I'm more inclined to give them a small
pass on that sure is there anything that
you would say to any of the clutch fans
out there well thank you for your
support hopefully we'll continue to not
let our Nexus get destroyed and we'll
continue on the summer split and make a
big push for not only ourselves but also
our fans well thank you so much
Sebastian for the interview looking
forward to seeing what the future holds
best luck keeping your Nexus unexploded
and then and there coming a couple games
a couple of weeks everyone else you can
check out the rest of my coverage of all
things eSports right here on my youtube
channel thanks so much to Omni slash for
the support I want to talk to you guys a
little bit about something personal a
personal event that happened in my life
recently a lot of you might know that I
moved out of my old place it into a new
place and that's because my family has
expanded that's right I am actually
supporting someone else now and so you
know that we know when the omni's slash
supports this when you hit up my twitch
channel with a twitch prime when you
subscribe to this and that car drives by
that all that stuff is going is
supporting not just me but also Coby who
lives with me now
you know you've all heard the rumors
about castor pay I gotta take care of
him he expects me to pay all the rent to
feed him to basically do everything you
just sort of plays video games and then
I just have to do everything else you
doing so your support helps me take care
of my family my family being Coby